# Research-Thesis
Title : SKIN CANCER CLASSIFICATION FROM DERMATOSCOPY IMAGES  BASED ON CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK U-NET AND  SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE 

Abstract : 
The Global Burden of Cancer Study (Globocan) by the World Health Organization (WHO) reported that the number of cancer cases in Indonesia in 2020 reached 396,914, with total cancer-related deaths reaching 234,511 cases. Skin cancer accounted for 5.9 - 7.8% of the total cancer cases. The cure rate can increase up to 90% with early detection, but early detection is considered complex and subjective, often leading to delayed skin cancer diagnosis. Consequently, a Computer-Aided Diagnostic (CAD) system, designed to enhance diagnostic accuracy, has been developed. Automated diagnosis of dermatoscopic images faces challenges due to complex variations in appearance. In this study, a system is proposed consisting of image preprocessing which is done to improve image quality, image segmentation using U-Net which is done to separate the lesion from the image background, feature extraction using the GLCM method to calculate contrast, energy, homogeneity, and entropy of the image at angles of 0⁰, 45⁰, 90⁰, and 135⁰ and the ABCD method which takes several shape and color features in the image, namely asymmetry (A), edge or border (B), color or color (C), and diameter (D). Finally, multilabel classification is performed using Support Vector Machine with One-Vs-Rest approach. The model with the best results in the study was obtained with the SMOTEENN data balancing method which is a combination of the SMOTE (Synthetic Minority Over-sampling Technique) and ENN (Edited Nearest Neighbors) methods with the use of Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernels with C and Gamma parameters of 1000 and 0,1 using 21 features. The results obtained from this model are the values of accuracy, precision, sensitivity, specificity, and MCC (Matthews Correlation Coefficient) of 95,25%, 95,25%, 95,24%, 99,02%, and 0,94. 
